**** Launching without a launcher

If you don't have or want to use a launcher, the main things you'll need to know are the name of the game (mod) folder that you want to activate (if any), the name of the map you want to play, and whether the map/mod requires a base game like Quoth or a missionpack. The maps_and_mods readmes describe how to find out if there is a base game requirement.

When you know those things, you can handle all launcher-type activities from within the Quake menus and console, at least on some Quake engines. To keep it somewhat simple, this readme will mainly talk about the Mark V engine, but Quakespasm is very similar (only lacking the Levels menu). Other Quake engines may have similar capabilities.

You can always fall back to using command-line options, but I won't get into that here. You can get some info about command-line options from the section "The Command Line" in this guide: http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=120426294 and also some of this guide: http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=166554615


**** The Quake console

To open the Quake console, use the key under the ESC key on your keyboard (for typical US keyboards this is the backtick/tilde key). You can close the Quake console by hitting that key again or by hitting ESC. While the console is open you can type commands to cause stuff to happen, or type in new values for various settings.

This readme will just mention a few console commands. If you're curious to learn more, much of this guide is relevant: http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=120426294


**** Setting the Base Game and Mod

If the map you want to run is just a .bsp file in the "id1\maps" folder, skip this section. That's the normal/default map location and doesn't involve any mod code.

Otherwise though, you'll need to specify the mod folder to activate. The map/mod may also have a base game requirement (as specified in its readme).

You specify these things using the "game" command in the Quake console.

If the folder containing the addon content is named "foo" and doesn't require a special base game, then you would activate it with this command:
    game foo; exec quake.rc

If the folder is named "foo" and requires Quoth as a base game, then you would activate it with this command:
    game foo -quoth; exec quake.rc

If the folder is named "foo" and requires missionpack 1 as a base game, then you would activate it with this command:
    game foo -hipnotic; exec quake.rc

If the folder is named "foo" and requires missionpack 2 as a base game, then you would activate it with this command:
    game foo -rogue; exec quake.rc

If you're curious about "quake.rc" and why you usually want to exec that config file (but sometimes might not), see the last section of this readme below. TLDR: it should be fine to exec quake.rc, but you should probably only use the "game" command to switch from "normal" Quake to some mod. Don't use it to switch back and forth. If you want to change mods, restart Quake.


**** Setting difficulty

If you know that you almost always want to play at the same difficulty, you should add a line with a "skill" setting to your "id1\autoexec.cfg" file. The legal values for skill are from 0 to 3, which corresponds to difficulty levels Easy to Nightmare. For example if you pretty much always want to play Nightmare difficulty you could add a line to your autoexec.cfg that says:
    skill 3

(Note that if you do use a launcher, the skill setting from the launcher will override this.)

If you don't have this setting in your autoexec.cfg, or if you do but you want to make an exception this time and play at a different difficulty level, then you can use the Quake console to choose the difficulty. Just enter a skill setting in the console AFTER switching the game setting as above (if necessary) and before starting a map.


**** Launching a map

Mark V has an in-game menu that you can use to choose the map. Press ESC if necessary to get to the main Quake menu, then choose Single Player, then choose Levels.

This menu shows all maps that can be played with your currently active mod (if any). This includes any maps under the mod's folder as well as the maps from the base game. Scroll through the list, find the map you want, and press Enter/Return to launch the map.

If you're using Quakespasm or some other engine that doesn't have a Levels menu, you can use the Quake console. You'll need to know the map filename. If for example the filename of the map you want to play is "whatsit.bsp", you would use the console command:
    map whatsit

Note that if you are playing a mod that replaces the in-game menu graphics, the Levels menu may be missing in Mark V. In that case then you can use the Quake console to launch a map, as above.


**** What's this about "quake.rc" then?

Here we get into more esoteric stuff that hopefully you won't need to know about. But if you're seeing odd behaviors like config files not working as expected when using mods, this might be good to know.

"quake.rc" is sort of a master config file included among the original Quake gamedata. It executes some other config files, including "autoexec.cfg" if that exists, and also starts playing the attract-mode demos.

The files in a mod release may contain a new different "quake.rc" that sets some console values, creates new console commands, or does other things. Or the mod might not have a new "quake.rc", but it might have new versions of the OTHER config scripts that get executed when you execute "quake.rc".

(If you want a lot more discussion about "quake.rc", see https://tomeofpreach.wordpress.com/2013/09/05/quake-rc-and-being-a-good-citizen/ )

When you start up Quake, it will execute "quake.rc". This includes the case of starting up Quake with the "-game" command-line argument to make it immediately switch to a particular mod folder. So in original Quake (before the "game" console command was added) mods were created under the expectation that "quake.rc" would be run when a mod was activated. Some mods rely on this behavior. Not many, but some.

So why doesn't the "game" console command execute "quake.rc"? **

This is something that Quake community developers have talked about for quite a while. One argument has to do with the fact that some mods do rude things with their config files. For example a mod might contain an "autoexec.cfg" that overrides your own "id1\autoexec.cfg" file. So if you're using the "game" console command to activate a mod, you might want to still have the choice as to whether or not you want to execute "quake.rc" (and the other config files that it runs).

Also if there are any weird options set by the mod folder's config files, and you switch back to id1 or some other mod folder later in the same Quake session, then those weird settings can be carried over into those other configs.

But usually IMO executing "quake.rc" after activating a mod is the right thing to do, which is why I recommended that above. If you're worried about this mod's config "escaping" into other configs, then just don't use the "game" command again after you have switched to a mod. If you want to play some other mod, restart Quake.

The installer batch files in this package will occasionally put customized "quake.rc" files in mod folders, to apply mod-recommended settings in a way that does not override anything you might have in "id1\autoexec.cfg". They will also rename any "autoexec.cfg" file included in a mod so that it does not disturb whatever you have set up in "id1\autoexec.cfg".

** Recently the 0.93.0 release of Quakespasm changed the behavior of the "game" command, so that it DOES now automatically execute "quake.rc" after switching game folders. So for Quakespasm 0.93.0 (and presumably later versions) it's no longer necessary to do "exec quake.rc" yourself. I'll keep an eye out to see if Mark V follows suit.
