**** Quakestarter configuration files

The file "_quakestarter_cfg_defaults.cmd" in the "quakestarter_scripts" folder describes some configurable behaviors for Quakestarter, and their default settings.

If you want to change any of these behaviors, create a new file called "_quakestarter_cfg.cmd" in the same folder as the Quakestarter script. (I.e. NOT in the "quakestarter_scripts" folder, but above in your main Quake folder.) In this new file you can set any of the options that you wish to change.

For example, in "_quakestarter_cfg_defaults.cmd" the following line specifies the default Quake engine to use:
    set quake_exe=quakespasm-spiked-win64.exe

Let's say you would rather use vkQuake, and that's the Quake engine that you have installed in your Quake folder instead of Quakespasm-Spiked. To make Quakestarter use vkQuake, you would put this line in your "_quakestarter_cfg.cmd" file:
    set quake_exe=vkQuake.exe

The "_quakestarter_cfg_defaults.cmd" file describes these settings in detail, so most of them don't need extra description here. We'll cover a couple of them below though.


**** Engine choice

If you do modify the quake_exe value as described above, it's not guaranteed that your choice of Quake engine will be able to properly run every selection from the Quakestarter menus.

vkQuake should be a safe alternative. And the original Quakespasm engine is also widely compatible, although since the original Quakespasm lacks multigame support (see below) there will be a small number of Quakestarter items that it cannot launch.

Beyond those choices, it's more on your shoulders to look into compatibility issues and be aware that something might go wrong. Even some Quake engine that is a perfectly fine piece of software engineering may have troubles running a particular map release if the map was never tested against that engine, and FWIW most releases are tested against a Quakespasm-family engine. A map may even malfunction in ways that are not immediately apparent if you haven't played it before (e.g. missing monsters, lighting errors).

That said, there are many players who are perfectly happy with their preference for a specialty engine like FTE or DarkPlaces, willing to do a bit of troubleshooting if necessary in order to benefit from unique features that those engines provide. The only inarguable "bad choice" for a Quake engine, when it comes to the purpose of playing custom addons, would be a multiplayer-focussed engine like ezQuake.


**** Multigame support

As mentioned in the "1_mod_folders.txt" doc in the "quakestarter_docs\maps_and_mods" folder, Quakestarter has reasons for installing each addon into its own folder.

For addons that only build on the original Quake campaign content, that's simple enough to deal with. For addons that depend on the official missionpacks, Quake has always supported command-line options for expressing those dependencies (i.e. "-hipnotic" or "-rogue" for missionpack 1 or 2 respectively). And for addons that build on the Quoth mod, modern Quake engines have long supported the "-quoth" argument to express that dependency.

For addons that build on mods other than Quoth... it's not always been quite as easy to represent that situation. Fortunately, modern Quake engines like Quakespasm-Spiked, vkQuake (version 1.05.0 and later), FTE, and DarkPlaces support activating a list of mod folders rather than just one, with each folder in the list building on the previous. The "mod_requirements.txt" doc goes into more detail about how this feature is used.

Quakestarter relies on this feature to support installing and launching addons that depend on the Arcane Dimensions or Copper mods. (This doesn't include mods that carry their own copy of the AD or Copper mod; it means simple map releases that are meant to be played with AD or Copper.)

If you are using a Quake engine that does NOT have this feature, like original Quakespasm or Mark V, then your "_quakestarter_cfg.cmd" file needs to have this line in it:
    set multigame_support=false

This will let Quakestarter know which addons it cannot work with.


**** Download behavior

And finally, a consideration that is outside of that configuration file:

Quakestarter will use "curl.exe" to download zipfiles, if that utility is in a directory included in your Windows PATH environment variable. This will be the case in current versions of Windows 10.

If Quakestarter can't find that curl utility, it will use a .Net assembly to do the download instead. This should work fine. One downside though is that this approach will not show a progress bar during the download.

If you don't have "curl.exe" in one of your PATH directories and you really do want that progress bar -- or if for some reason the .Net assembly isn't working and you want to try using curl instead -- then you could install curl yourself. You can get a perfectly good "curl.exe" from https://curl.se/windows/ . Then you can either place that utility into some directory that is already in your PATH, or edit your PATH value to include the directory where you put curl.

(How to edit system environment variables like PATH is outside the scope of this doc, but is well-covered in Google results.)
