This doc is strictly about considerations for using Simple Quake Launcher 2 or a similar launcher.

One general thing to keep in mind is that the box at the bottom of the launcher shows the Quake-launching command line that is being constructed by the various choices you make. You can compare this against the command line shown when Quakestarter launches the same mod, to see if the right thing is being done.


**** Game

The "Game" label for this setting in Simple Quake Launcher 2 might be somewhat confusing because it does NOT refer to the "game directory" (mod folder), but rather to the basic set of content that any mod will then build on.

Most addons just use "Quake" for the "Game" setting, indicating that they build on the original Quake campaign content. But in some cases an included readme file may tell you differently.

A readme that mentions the "-hipnotic" command-line argument is an indicator that you should specify "MP1: Scourge of Armagon" as the "Game" in the launcher. A mention of "-rogue" is an indicator to specify "MP2: Dissolution of Eternity" as the "Game".

Some addons may ask that you use missionpack 1 even if you don't have that missionpack installed. In that case, the mod doesn't use any assets from the missionpack, but it does use some missionpack-specific code inside your Quake engine.

Some addons require using the mod Quoth as the base game. If you don't have Quoth you can get it from https://tomeofpreach.wordpress.com/quoth/ and install it into a mod folder named "quoth". Quoth is the "Game" to specify in the launcher if a readme mentions using the "-quoth" command-line argument or generally talks about having a Quoth requirement.

Even if the readme mentions both "-quoth" and "-hipnotic", then specifying just "Quoth" as the "Game" in the launcher is still the thing to do.


**** Mod

If the content is in its own separate mod folder -- which will always be the case for content installed through Quakestarter -- then use Simple Quake Launcher 2 to select that game folder as the "Mod" to launch.

Otherwise select the "[Default]" mod.


**** Mod dependencies

If the mod is in its own folder but it builds on another mod, for example a map release that depends on Arcane Dimensions or Copper, then you will need to do one more thing. This doesn't include maps/mods that depend on Quoth or an official missionpack; those cases were already covered by the Game setting. This also doesn't include mods that carry their own copy of the AD or Copper mod; it means pure map releases that are meant to be played with AD or Copper. 

So for example let's look at the Underdark Overbright episode, which must be run using Copper. If this is installed into its own mod folder "udob_v1_1", seperate from the Copper folder, how do you correctly launch it?

Unfortunately the launcher doesn't have a nice simple button or dropdown for this part. In the box at the bottom of the launcher that shows the Quake command line that is being built, there are some gray sections. Click inside the first of these gray sections so you can type a "-game" argument that specifies the other mod that this depends on.

    - If this mod depends on Arcane Dimensions, and Arcane Dimensions is installed into the "ad_v1_80p1final" folder, then you would type the following into that first gray box: -game ad_v1_80p1final

    - If this mod depends on Copper, and Copper is installed into the "copper_v1_11" folder, then you would type the following into that first gray box: -game copper_v1_11

Back to our example then: for launching the "udob_v1_1" mod which depends on Copper, after you have typed in the necessary additional "-game" argument then the entire displayed Quake command line would look like this: quakespasm-spiked-win64.exe -game copper_v1_11 -game udob_v1_1 +map start

Note that this arrangement only works with Quake engines that support multiple "-game" arguments on the command line; this includes Quakespasm-Spiked, vkQuake (version 1.05.0 and later), FTE, and DarkPlaces. It will not for example work with the original Quakespasm or with Mark V. If you are using an engine that doesn't support multiple "-game" arguments, then to play such content you will need to just dump it into the Arcane Dimensions or Copper mod folder, so that you can then load that folder as the single mod.

One reason it's necessary to mention this here is because addons installed by Quakestarter will always follow the every-release-in-its-own-folder method. The reasons for that are covered in the "1_mod_folders.txt" doc.


**** Other requirements

Check the addon's readme file to see if there are any special requirements for running it, or anything that you should know about new weapons or monsters.

Note that any of the content downloaded through Quakestarter should be good to go, without any additional work from you.

However if you're playing content that was installed in some other way, and you're wondering what to do with any mod-recommended settings, see the "quakestarter_docs\other_stuff\mod_requirements.txt" file.


**** Launching

Once you have the "Game" and "Mod" set, pick the map and skill setting you want to play, and launch.

For custom episodes, Simple Quake Launcher 2 will often figure out the first map of the episode and select it by default. You can also check any included readme file to see what the first map should be.

Some addons do not have a startmap or hub map, and are just a collection of individual maps. In that case you'll need to select and launch each map individually to play it.
